YouTube video: https://youtu.be/18K89pz3a7k

This project was done locally on my laptop after a long process of setup and prepare, therefore in order to run this project on your machine a similar process should be undertaken. A word of caution: one of the packages used to create the gui for this project, tkinter, does not work with the wsl virtual environment. It is advisable to either work in base windows, mac, or a linux os, or create a dedicated virtual environment for this project. I worked in the dedicated windows environment. 

Once the environment for running this project is chosen, the next step is to prepare the numerous python libraries employed in this project. Using either pip or conda, download keras, PIL, numpy, pandas, sklearn, glob, matplotlib, tkinter, and h5py. The process for downloading differs slightly by environment, so proceed as necessary for your respective environment. For instance, if pip isn't already installed, for unix and mac os users one can try to bootstrap it from the standard library with the command line command python3 -m ensurepip --default-pip. From there it is a simple process of pip install library for the respective libraries.

After setting up all the requisite libraries for the environment, the next step is to ensure you have the database downloaded locally onto your computer. It should be included in the zipfile, but if not you can find the database, being a folder of 15000 jpg files and a csv file, from kaggle at https://www.kaggle.com/pascalbliem/handwritten-chinese-character-hanzi-datasets. Whether from the zipfile or downloaded directly from the browser, make sure you change the file path encoded within both the gui.py file and the finalmodel.ipynb file to match the file path of the folder of images, csv, and model, respectively. I will walk you through this in greater detail shortly.

In order to run this program, the first step is to locally train the cnn classifier model so that it can be subsequently used to classify your writing in the gui program. Therefore, to begin using this tool, one must first open the FinalModel.ipynb file to begin training the model. There are three places where you must update the file to match locally wherever you chose to store the data downloaded. In cell 2 line 2 you need to change the csv path to match wherever you stored the csv on your own computer. Likewise, in cell 3 line 2 and cell 11 line 4, you need to change the path for the folder of images to match where you elected to store the folder. Once all of this is updated, provided you have set everything up correctly downloading the requisite libraries outlined above, you should be able to run the program. Simply run all cells. If everything works, you should recieve a print statement in the terminal that reads that the model saved successfully.

Once the model is saved successfully, you are now ready to run the gui file and actually access the fuctionality of the tool. But before you run gui.py, you need to ensure that the file address on line 19, which loads the model you just trained, matches the location of the model saved locally. Currently, FinalModel simply saves the model in the same directory as FinalModel is stored in. Once that is updated, simply run the gui.py file in order to use the tool. Enjoy!